something that we value a lot at asana
is intentionality where are we headed
the daily work of employees is deeply
connected to that purpose
have i defined reality well enough have
i given enough context
in every communication you're tying hey
what are you doing to why it matters
that vision that you have that purpose
can only happen with a great group of
people
take that same passion for what the
product is and apply that to building a
team
good leaders and executives
stay really curious if you had a magic
wand what would you change i've learned
just by asking that question
what does success look like
how do i keep growing as fast as i can
and make as big an impact as i can for
the organization
the people around us change us a high
high functioning team that's very
learning and growth based just the
difference that makes
not only in terms of achieving outcomes
but just to work with and have fun and
enjoy my goal is that whoever joins the
team is just super excited to be part of
it
so
in the metrics what we wanted to just
show in terms of like proof why do we
believe in it we've seen it in action
but um where else has this played out so
if you look at these companies that are
all public and you look at their next 12
month revenue growth super strong
revenue growth and super strong
enterprise value or market cap um in
trading right so the bowl of these five
awesome companies many of whom were
customers of they have that combination
they make it super easy to buy and try
very much like um consumer products that
we might all love um like peloton
spotify or even crossovers into b2b like
linkedin right you can try it you can
get value but then they also have
invested in sales teams that help
companies of larger sizes get more value
out of partnering with them um so we
wanted to make sure we ground everybody
in the metrics before we dive in on well
what do we actually mean um that you
should do in self-serve or how to think
about self-serve and then when to add
sales
so maybe just diving in on how asana
thinks about self-serve and then where
we've added sales so from the very
beginning we really believed that new
users coming in should be able to sign
up and get value pretty quickly they
should when they have the pain point
they should come be able to try out the
product
adopt we believe very much in a free
product that delivers a lot of value
because there's also learning in work
management so we want teams to be able
to have a lot of time to
learn practice and then grow with us
and then we want to present features and
benefits that
teams as they get bigger
can upgrade and see additional value
when they've got budget for it they've
already seen the roi and they're willing
to pay
and then we've added sales over time to
really partner with customers to
navigate more complex purchasing
processes or as an organization's
growing really quickly and they're
expanding from team to team so that's
how asana thinks about
our you know go-to-market motion of both
self-serve and sales
and then underlying that is how do we
think about every step of the funnel and
how we optimize and test and learn you
know so with the self-serve motion you
can do a lot of optimization in your top
of funnel all the way through your
buying process and really optimize that
through lots of data and then you can
also look at well what can you present
to free teams teams that are getting a
lot of value out of your free product
but then what can you present and how do
you present that in a way that gives
them the aha of oh hey maybe i do want
to try out the paid product now that
i've been an it's not a customer for a
while
and then that same motion of
experimentation comes to adding
great sales people to that process they
are benefit from a lot of data already
on what teams and organizations are
getting value from so then when they
reach out or a customer raises their
hand to have an expansion conversation
they can do that in a really value-added
way so that's how we think about our
self-serve motion and where we add sales
at asana right amanda i would love to
hear how you think about it at figma
yes a figma is actually pretty much
exactly the same as asano we have a free
product that when you sign up for
figma online you you start in the free
product and then you can choose to
upgrade to a paid plan either on your
own with a credit card or via our sales
team
um i would also add though i think it's
important to think about what you want
to have happen at each phase
for figma we know that the aha moment
that triggers an upgrade is often when
people experience the product with
others
it's a collaboration experience so if
they can go through a project cycle
together as a team they're much more
likely to upgrade to a paid team and
repeat that process so we've done a lot
of thinking about how to optimize for
that along the whole journey
uh as we improve uh the flow
yeah i think just identifying those aha
moments right and being able to have
enough data to work with to then test
and experiment i love that um
and also it's been fun to see the
organic adoption of figma across the
sauna
all right so i know we have we have uh
opinionated points of view on why to
start with self-serve this is a
conversation that amanda and i have had
many times together and also many times
with founders um and teams who've
reached out and said hey why did you do
this at zendesk why did you do this at
asana or figma um so maybe diving in
here amanda why do you think it's key to
start with self-serve yeah i this is
often what happens is founders come to
me and they've already created a product
and they have a sales team selling it
and then they think oh self-service
that's great super cost efficient i want
some of that which is a very natural
feeling to have
and so we talk about it and
the pro there's a couple of problems
with starting with sales i think uh
first and then wanting to do self-serve
later is
first of all you've already your sales
team's already established their motion
with of talking to everyone who comes in
your front door
and it's just really hard to take that
away later
and so that's problem number one the
second problem is
and i'm talking about doing sales and
then self-service right so
um the other problem with doing it in
that order is you don't have the dna in
your product design and engineering
organization
on how you
how you build the onboarding of your
product without humans involved
and you can't just hire one growth pm
and it's done it's part it needs to be
part of how everyone's thinking about
that experience and if you don't launch
your product with that first it's just
really hard to inject later
so
uh i don't i don't think it's impossible
but it takes more than just hiring one
person
and i think
on top of that i would say thirdly
if you intuitively started your business
with a sales team there might have been
a reason why
you might not have the right product to
do it with for self-service so i would
think about what what led you to start
that way so that's why those all those
reasons are why i think it's great to if
you can
start with self-service and then add
sales after
yeah i i think you hit so many key
points um that have come up in similar
conversations that i've had with
founders who are building great
businesses and have a sales team and
they're having good customer
conversations and they'll i'll often
hear them say okay i'm going to add
self-serve or i'm going to add a product
led motion and i think that some of the
friction points there definitely
resources and i would say like a mindset
right teams that start with self-serve
oftentimes are have people who built
consumer products and really have a
mindset of what should be
um as easy as possible to do without
that end customer needing to talk to
anybody and and also designing in those
aha moments instead of relying on oh
they have to have a conversation to
understand the value there's this
mindset of in the product at every
moment we should be delivering value
and and i do think oftentimes that
design product and even technical skills
early on come out of places that are
very consumer and very high volume
oriented um
and then later you delay doing that the
harder it is because you've also built
human intervention into your processes
right so you're you're more apt as a
founder as you're balancing you know
scarce resources to be like okay well
instead of having a whole engineering
pod build that we'll hire a couple
people who can you know smooth over that
gap in the process um but the the
companies that are really dedicated to
self-serve in the beginning have that
mindset of what if they never talk to
anybody
and then when you add people i think
that's the benefit of hey when should we
have people have our customers talk to
somebody and what's the value of talking
to somebody from the company um but
maybe let's let's dive in amanda you
brought up a really good point on well
how do um how can i tell if my product
is meant to be sold via self-serve right
because it sounds awesome doing all
these things where customers can buy on
their own and you've got high volume and
you're growing um but what what kinds of
products you know don't lend themselves
to self-serve or how could founders and
teams sort of think about diagnosing
that yeah i i think this is a really
good one
i haven't actually talked to that many
people about this so this is just my own
um thoughts on it but
there's a few things um i think about so
first and foremost implementation like
what is the implementation of your
product look like today and what could
it look like ideally
so can you imagine a person setting up
your product without help
or
without humans or documentation at all
so the gold standard of this would be
like the apple iphone
you bring it out of the box and you push
on and you go through the flow and
you're done no documentation no humans
generally speaking right
um and so i i think about that um i
think at zendesk we we actually had a
big friction point which was if you
wanted to really start using the product
you had to ingest your email and so we
went through a lot of iterations to make
that as seamless as possible
um without needing to require human to
help you
the other thing i would think about is
how familiar your users are with your
space already are you creating a new
market or product and category or is it
are you joining into something that's
already established
figma actually
is not a first mover it's a it's joined
into a market where people already were
using design tools
uh so we already had a lot of
familiarity and it it's very easy to get
started there's really nothing that
nothing that you need to do other than
sign up and start using the product so
check and check
another thing i would think about is
just how are you
considering your pricing and packaging
strategy because
it's so important that users who are
evaluating whether or not to sign up
if they can really easily identify which
plan and price
works for them uh fast then
you've eliminated that part of the
decision of whether or not it's worth
trying out and i think that's an
important precursor step to the
implementation
and then finally i would say
do you already understand what your
magic moment is that aha moment
that where people start to experience a
lot of value with your product
and can you take the friction out of
getting to that moment
so those are certain the four different
things i think about uh to consider this
question yeah i i love i love that i was
um i love that framework and that list
of those questions um it also struck me
like you know products we've worked with
founders with products where um you talk
about like onboarding
and also where if you think through like
oh the team or the person can't get
value unless like you know content is
moved over or unless they're plugged
into a lot of other existing apps right
if you think about you know digging into
that onboarding load um products where
you can't get to that aha moment unless
a lot of other things that might require
even someone with that pain point and
passion to adopt to have to go around
their organization and get additional
buy-in or approval those might be
products that are harder to do
self-serve
because they're dependent on other
resources
and other buy-in and approval
on pricing and packaging i would also
really think about that like total value
delivered and if you're designing a
you know security product heavy
analytics product where you ultimately
think
you know i can build a really successful
business with a few thousand customers
paying me
quite a bit every year it's probably not
a self-serve product right and where you
say hey it's a c level buying decision
and ultimately i see my product being
something that's you know in the top 10
spend that an organization has that's
definitely not one you know where you're
like i'm gonna start with something
where someone can put down their credit
card and get value so um they're not
right or wrong choices but i think just
going through that list of questions
amanda shared and really picturing do i
see myself building a business where
there's hundreds of thousands of
customers um many of them you know that
can do the vast majority on their own
and then maybe i've got a subset of
these mid-market enterprise customers
then really think about okay what's bot
and then what do i want you know what do
i intend to sell
great all right so then that kind of
leads us to well how do you know if if
i'm a founder or team trying to make
this decision how do i think about my
decision tree of what should be
self-serve and then when i do want to
add sales you know what should be done
by sales what are what are signals um
and what are ways i mean are you within
figma have kind of made those trade-offs
and decisions
yeah um
well i think and we're talking about
when to pass things over to sales namely
yeah exactly yeah
um so every people who sign up for figma
we don't pass all of them to sales so we
have to
make a decision on whether or not we
think that they are are good candidates
for sales or not and a few different
things go into that
um
i think obvious things like the
do you
if it's a cio situation like a fortune
100 company yeah you're probably going
to want your sales team talking to a
company of that size so
uh demographics and and the profile of
the account come into play for sure
um the other thing is
what what is your what is that lead
doing inside the product and as a sas
application
we have the luxury of being able to use
that usage information to our advantage
and
and and actually provide a better user
experience so
we use that as well
and then we also
uh we also have a few accounts that we
put into our sales teams
books of business that we want them to
be able to proactively
make a play for and so we will feed them
information about whether or not anyone
from that account
signs up or comes to a webinar or
interacts with us in different ways so
uh their behavior with us as a brand
comes into play as well so yeah
pretty standard stuff yeah no i am i
think that the sort of the signals from
the customer i think are are worth you
know pausing on and diving into because
you talk and i think many of those are
feeding how you think about where sales
can add the value right that even just
like hand raisers do you test out places
where customers can tell you that they
do want to talk to somebody and then
understand where you can run experiments
there of like well what is it what's
either the need or the friction point
that then someone really wants to know
that they can talk to somebody and
oftentimes that can just be you know
early on it can very much be i want to
know that this you know company and
product is going to be around i want to
know the people behind it that's a very
valid reason that a customer may want to
interact and really see you know who's
behind this product and then you can
think about well how many people you
know raise their hand um and test
we ran a lot of these tests at zendesk
as well tests like when they talk to
somebody you know do they buy a
different to your product um do they
expand faster because then you may have
those moments to identify the hand
raisers earlier because you can see that
those value-add conversations are
actually delivering more for those
customers um
you talked a little bit about marquee
logos that's also something you know you
know to really think about who's your
ideal customer profile and are you
making sure that those customers and the
target of your bull's-eye are getting
the love time and attention uh that you
know especially early on in a company's
growth because many of those can then be
references for future customers so being
really thoughtful of where you put you
know your time and talent um something
else i think as companies develop is
also just intentional marketing programs
that are you know account based
marketing so specifically them saying
partnering with your sales team and
saying there's a set of accounts that
we're going to go after hand-in-hand and
those accounts are definitely going to
be the ones where from the get-go you
know we've got people on them making
them successful so those are other ways
to think about that decision tree
intentionally
versus i think amanda and i have also
both experienced you don't want sales to
cannibalize self-serve or you don't want
confusion internally let alone confusion
externally you know for your customers
to see the seams between your self-serve
um and your sales
anything on this there yeah i'll also
add one of the things that we did at
zendesk um when i was there was uh
because we had so much history of who
converted and who didn't into a paid
customer
we had a data scientist come up with a
model
that when a lead was came to the site
and signed up for the trial
they we could
after day three we could determine
on a scale of one to five with which
probability they might convert to paid
and what i thought was really
interesting was we would feed that
information to sales and then we would
we would help we would bring them into
the fold of data using data to your
advantage and say
well you can go talk to the fives but
they already have a very high propensity
to buy so
your effort is going to have a bigger
impact if you talk to the threes and the
force and the ones and the twos even
though it might look like an interesting
lead
you're going to be wasting your time
most likely so i just i love
arming sales with data like that because
it really helped uh prioritize for them
yeah and those product signals also make
sure that when they have a conversation
they're um they're having a more
strategic conversation right it's not uh
i'm explaining all the features to you
if you if the
product itself can provide those aha
moments that you were talking about
and that the data that you're gathering
can show where there's friction points
or maybe features that a customer is not
using that you think they could get
value from then by the time they're
having a conversation with your awesome
sales team it really is about hey how
can you get more out of and were you
aware of and based on how you're using
it here's additional things and it feels
just much more like a partnership than
trying to sell the customer um and i
think people you know on both sides
enjoy those conversations a lot more
um so we're going to put it into action
and share a couple of actual experiments
that um each of our teams have run and
why uh to you know put a little more
color on it
all right we'll start with figma yes so
one of the big things that we did this
year as a company was we launched a
second product
we call it fig jam it's an online
whiteboard
we launched it into beta in april and as
a precursor to that we had to decide how
we wanted to price and package it
ultimately
and you're looking at uh how we have our
our plans today so we have we actually
have three plans i'm just showing you we
have our free tier it's called starter
and we've got a pro tier which is our
first paid tier
and
prior to this launch
the way that the pay gate worked to go
up to to paid was you if you had
we charge you per editor
viewers are free on figma
and so once you add a third editor you
had to upgrade to pro
now the problem with that was
with fig jam being an online whiteboard
we knew that the product even even more
so than figma but for really both
products the magic of it is when you
collaborate with multiple people and so
we knew that this pay gate was a problem
for us because we really wanted people
to experience that magic moment in the
free plan
and so we wanted to change this for both
of our products because we wanted you to
be able to experience both products in
the free plan
and so what we did in on the next slide
we ran in
we ran it as an experiment first which
is kind of tricky to do but we our
growth team figured out how to do it and
what we wanted to see
was would we be successful changing the
way we had our pay gates set up so
that we wanted ultimately the pay gate
to be more on the amount of files you
had rather than the amount of users you
had
and so uh what was great is that through
the experiment we we saw more people
upgrading to paid which is nice for the
company but more importantly it was good
for users because more people were
collaborating
uh nearly 30 and we didn't see a
regression on new user retention or
invites so
that gave us some confidence that we
could do this repackage successfully
um and i thought it might be fun to
share
one of the ways that we talked about
whether or not this was the right thing
to do on the next slide is a metaphor
we we talked about which was cake
a lot of internal slides had cake pieces
on them so
prior to this refresh
our free tier was thought of as you got
one layer of the cake
um but ideally what we wanted it to be
was like of the whole full slice of the
cake
and that when you upgrade to paid you
got the whole cake so
if this is a helpful
metaphor as you and
analyze your free tier and whether it's
the right one this was helpful to us
uh and so uh you're welcome
i love that analogy i think there's so
much goodness in that including i'm sure
lots of yummy cake photos um internally
on lots of fig jams um and having
benefited from fake jam as well as the
pigma product i could you know
it's sort of seeing all that goodness
and experimentation that your team's
done in action um but i think that it's
such a good point here and and maybe
that's a you segue into you know the
sauna example we wanted to share i think
has some of those similar themes of like
how do you make it as easy as possible
for customers to see value
in you know features that you've really
invested in and you already see a subset
of your customers your paid customers
get value from so portfolios is a paid
feature of asana which provides like a
holistic view across all your important
projects and we saw a lot of customers
in our paid plan get a ton of value from
that especially as they were scaling
with asana
but we wanted to make sure
people who hadn't tried that yet could
have a really great experience with it
so it's that aha moment again of seeing
the value versus having to have
customers work to see it and so the
tests that our team ran here was sort of
pre-populating portfolios and
in a trial you know testing the hey if
you've already got multiple projects
going on
see it in action in a portfolio so we
saw an increase in the number of active
and engaged users on the order of 20
right that seeing and and that's such a
good learning not just for this feature
but all other future you know paid
features where it's like if if someone
can kind of come in and really easily
see it on top of what they're already
doing and engage with it much easier to
convince them hey at the right moment
you know upgrade versus having all those
like we've all experiences versus having
all those like you hit a paywall you hit
a paywall you hit a pay wall you know
here you're just you're showing the
value um and so that's a really exciting
win in terms of an experiment that the
team's running and taking that ethos
into other features um
and other packages in the future
great all right we want to make sure
there's enough time for questions but we
thought we would just you know hit the
highlights on lessons um that we've
learned by combining self-serve and
direct sales uh the first is reject
false trade-offs right oftentimes
there's a narrative of you gotta do one
or the other because both take a lot of
work and that's true and i think what
amanda and i have seen you know now
across three companies that have high
growth with both models is that done
well one feeds the other you get a ton
of great customer insights and data and
a funnel
feeding your sales um and really then
having more value-add conversations with
customers um
second point we've made start with
self-serve if you can um the kinds of
resources you need and the kind of team
and mindset to build that is not
something that's easily added on after
trust us we've worked with
founders who are trying and you know and
are continuing to invest in that but
find it just a much harder thing to add
on later um and then the last point but
probably the most important rate is
listen to your customers um what do your
customers want to buy and expect to buy
and then what do your customers want to
partner with you on to get more value
out of
and really think about that
intentionally as you design not only
your product but your organization and
your team and your incentives and
everything to make both motions work
well together
did i miss anything in the top takeaways
amanda no i think that's great i maybe
one point i'd add too at the end um i
added this sentence don't be surprised
that many people want to speak to sales
uh
you know we we often say like oh you
have a developer tool
uh that you're selling the developers
don't want to talk to sales well
actually some some do and you might be
surprised so make sure you
give that opportunity to your users
because uh you might be surprised
yeah definitely the humans behind the
product are sometimes the most important
part of having customers see value and
see sort of why you're building what
you're building
um all right i am going to stop sharing
and we are going to see we've got some
questions already
um
i like i like this one from john
it's common common to have post sales
customer success
for onboarding and adoption but do you
also provide this
customer success in the pre-sales phase
during an online trial period
which would increase the likelihood for
free to paid conversion
in fact at figma
we have a specialized role called a
designer advocate these are people that
were
full-time designers prior to coming to
figma
and they work across both marketing and
sales they actually report into
marketing
but they are product experts and they
assist in the sales process and much
like a sales engineer
would
but they but they also do things like
live streams and content creation and
social interactions that help in the
pre-sales process
um so they're very key
uh to the success and and valued quite a
bit at the company
yeah
um so i i would also say like at asana
um and we did this at zendesk is also
thinking about scaled customer success
in the pre-sales process right providing
lots of um what we would call like
one-to-many
enabling customers to join webinars to
access a library of how-to's um that go
you know hand-in-hand either as they
have a free product that they're using
or they're in a trial of a paid product
so really again thinking about all that
goodness that you can invest in customer
success but how might you do that
earlier in a customer's journey but in a
scaled fashion as well um and part of
that is also meeting the customer where
they are right then they don't they're
not dependent on waiting for a meeting
they can access it when they have the
pain point and want help um and then you
can also use those signals to direct
like when a one-to-one interaction might
add value
all right is there another one oh
jason's got a question for us
um
i i
saw one i liked too what are some
qualities you look for when hiring
strong sales leaders
seems tiring is a challenge for everyone
how should they focus their time energy
attention
i hired our our gm in europe and one of
the things that i was looking for was
had they sold
previously to people other than the cio
i wanted i wanted someone with the
mindset that
was beyond one buyer like that and so
that was one criteria i was looking for
just to test for how creative they might
be
uh in thinking about
who they who they're selling to and i i
say that because the it buyer is a
professional software buyer and so they
have a very
particular expect set of expectations
when it comes to the sales process
and for figma our main
initial buyer for figment design is is
the head of design and so
uh they're not buying software every day
uh and they're a very creative persona
in the company and so i it was important
to me that i could picture
a sales leader talking to our buyer that
was first and foremost but then i also
had a lot of conversations
about
what it meant to be a sales leader in a
in a company that had a self-service
motion
and how that played out for them in
their head and how
uh
how the partnership with marketing could
work
in ways that maybe they hadn't
experienced before or maybe they had so
those were some of the lines of
questions that i asked
yeah i love those like the picturing
are are they going to develop a
partnership with your customers right
and really develop that deep empathy and
i think we have a similar ethos here at
asana in terms of bringing on great
sales leaders is really you know
beginning with like they're passionate
about the mission they really want to
enable teams to work better together and
that's you know evident in the teams
that they've built and the places that
they've been and so they're an
incredibly credible partner to our
customers as they're navigating hey how
do we do this well not just the how do
we adopt the product well but how do we
think about strategic work management
you know what's the order of adoption um
and then just people that you know
really again see the customers success
and growth um as their own success
and so you know that's been a key
criteria at asana um and then in this
market also people who are great talent
magnets right and and see the value of
great building strong teams around the
world
um all right is there another one that
there's they're coming in so is there
another one that you want to take amanda
that you think would be good for the
audience let's see
there's a lot of good questions here
we're not going to be able to do all of
them um what is a good marketing team
org structure supporting both
self-service and sales teams
uh i can say for at figma one of the
things that i think is important for for
our marketing team is that they feel
connected to both
the top of funnel metric which is sign
ups
but also the metric that connects to
sales which is mqls
so
we track both of those we have goals
against both of those
we have people that feel directly
responsible for each of those
and i think it's important that you
celebrate both so that the whole team
feels like they're part of both because
they
at figma our self-service business uh
uh is is very important and a big driver
of revenue sales certainly outnumbers it
overall in the pie chart um which is
great and i love that um but they both
play a big role in the overall picture
yeah that's great um
all right there's some pricing questions
you answered that one so well so i'm
gonna make sure we get through other
questions there's like uh jason has a
number of awesome pricing questions for
us so any pricing mistakes we've seen
going from self-serve to sales um and
maybe a corollary to that also then like
internally like credit and commission
how do we think about that um and then
free users too good of a deal do we
should we tackle a couple of these
because i think we've seen this across
all three of the companies we work with
yeah yeah yeah
um pricey mistakes well this is one from
like
12 years ago so we can talk about it now
but one of the ones that zendesk
that we made was
at the end of the day what happened was
we wanted we wanted to increase prices
and
the way we did it was we
thought oh we could we could ask we
could have people
keep their old price but just uh upgrade
to an annual plan
and they
customers just rejected that big time
and so so many pro so many mistakes we
made first of all we didn't really talk
to customers before we rolled it out we
should have done that that would have
probably solved
solved uh or at least
had our expectations changed of what was
going to happen when we launched it
second thing that i took out of that is
that
people don't
necessarily mind in a sas world they
recognize they are adding more value to
the product all the time so they they
don't necessarily mind that you're going
to increase prices but they just don't
want to be they want to have some choice
in the matter and if you kind of force
them into something
that's where they get twitchy
so uh if you can
make them feel like they're in control
of the decision
because maybe you bundle all your new
features into like a higher price plan
that they can decide if they upgrade
into or not i think that's ideal it's
not always uh what you're able to do but
that's
uh giving giving customers the choice i
think was a big lesson i learned yeah
yeah well it resulted in some pretty
amazing t-shirts at zendesk with
angry tickets so that was the way we
celebrated the painful lessons of hey we
should have paid attention to the
customers ahead of time there were some
classic t-shirts with large you know
quotes from customers to remind us um so
that's a good way pro tip for everybody
out there we everybody makes mistakes um
then if you wear it proudly on a t-shirt
you'll de-risk it the next time around
um
so maybe the i'll tackle the one jason
asked about you know is it okay to give
your free users sort of too good of a
deal um what's the line and and i think
this is a really great question and it
and there's probably not a universal
answer it depends on the product but i
think at asana we have a deep belief
that um providing a robust free product
is good for so many reasons like
you know the first um first and foremost
is like we want to help teams of every
size realize value and be able to get
their work done better together and so
if that means they get a ton of value
from the free product um and they're
loyal asana customers and then they
share that you know with others there's
just a ton of value there
and we often see that free customers it
may not be that straight upgrade process
of okay i'm free and then i upgrade to
paid and then i expand but what we also
see it really lovely dynamic is
sometimes it they're free customers for
a specific use um you know maybe that's
a personal use or a smaller team but
then they'll actually adopt a paid
product when they move into another
organization or they start a company so
we we see that dynamic which is really
powerful so
not thinking about it as linear of like
free is just something that you market
to to upgrade to pay but these sort of
multiple vectors of value that you're
delivering for customers over time um
and then again with data you can do just
a lot of testing on you know what um
what are those trigger points and when
do your free customers pick their head
up and say yeah i've got budget for this
and these are the things i'm willing to
pay for because i know i'll get a lot of
value and i've built trust over time
with the company that it's not just a
hey we're trying to upgrade you at every
moment
i'll add to that i i think at figma
because our our vision is to make design
accessible to all
uh there's a huge value in us having a
really strong free plan
we've got 80 percent of our active users
outside the u.s sometimes in geos where
we know they're just they're not going
to be able to afford to pay for the
product so
it's important to us as a business and
what we value that we have a strong free
plan and
and i think that we
rely so much on word of mouth marketing
that a lot of our free users are part of
that that marketing
uh
motion and help uh bring visibility and
brand awareness around the world to
figma so
i i believe in it i believe it's
important to not be afraid to put a lot
of value in your free plan yeah
definitely um all right we've got some
um there's quite a few questions around
incentives how do we align incentives
um
or otherwise reduce friction between
kind of self-serve or product led growth
and sales teams to to make sure they're
working well together especially as the
company grows so do you want to kick
that off and i i know we've we've spent
a lot of time on that like how do you
have it be as productive as possible
where do you you know where do you draw
the line and how do you draw the line
but then how do you also evolve that
because it's not a fixed line yeah i
think both at zendesk and figma one of
the things that
helped drive the right kind of
incentives was just how do you segment
your sales team
so
for example
if you've got an enterprise segment
they're not going to
usually be at odds with your
self-service motion because
they're talking to the biggest companies
so
it's it's okay if walmart comes and
wants to buy a couple seats because i
know that that's going to be a big deal
ultimately for example
so so i want sales talking to that kind
of customer
but i think where you have to be a
little bit more intentional is just on
the lower end do you
do you want a sales team helping create
a bigger deal in those smb kind of
customers or do you want a self-service
motion
bringing them in the door and then maybe
sales trying to expand it afterwards and
i think there's no wrong or right answer
to that it's just a
choice you make and it has to do with
how you segment your sales team and and
what you have them work on
yeah and i i think people uh you know
the way we thought about ed asana is
we've intentionally known that that's
gonna evolve over time you know as our
business grows um because you know as
we've increasingly gone up market um we
have more and more customers that yes
they're still starting out with this
bottoms up and teams adopting but the
earlier that our sales team can partner
with them the faster that they can get
value across their organization and so
even if they are starting smaller you
know with a team just like a startup
might um it's valuable for us to
ensure that they're getting sort of the
right level of support um you know as
they grow and so but we know that that's
going to evolve kind of year over year
and so i think part of it is also just
managing expectations across the team of
this is something that we're going to do
intentionally and look at where that
line can and should be drawn ultimately
back to giving each customer as much
value as possible so that segmentation
you talked about is is really important
but also helping people understand that
that segmentation again is not fixed
it's going to evolve as your business
evolves and you learn more from your
customers um and then maybe touching on
incentives i think then it means like
really designing incentive structures so
that they're not creating you know
amanda and i call these like unattra
unnatural acts right you don't want the
friction to you know be between teams
internally you really do want to think
about hey when are we in learning mode
and we do want to make sure that we have
more flexibility and room in these
programs because we want everybody
locked arms and learning and then when
do you design and you know incentives
sort of more intentionally of hey this
is rewarding like this is rewarding
behavior that we know repeatedly creates
more value so i i think having that
mindset is really important
all right we probably have time i mean
there's so many questions i i wish we
had more time is there one more that you
feel like we should we've gotten enough
time to
um
tackle before we wrap up oh
gosh well there's uh as sales leaders of
extremely high growth companies how do
you enable new hires to get off to fast
starts
um good one definitely i think for us we
have we have a ramp period for new reps
so there's that
uh we celebrate their wins as they ramp
so there's that i think that's important
uh we have a whole
we've uh invested in ops and enablement
so we've got a whole enablement process
to
onboard them into the product we have
them go through a demo certification so
they really feel comfortable demoing the
product
they get a chance to
to shadow other reps
we record sales calls so they get to
listen to sales calls
and understand how the conversations
work
and for many of their conversations
their managers will jump in early on
uh to to help
you know advise along the way so there's
both human intervention there's
documentation there's set agendas in
their first few weeks um so it's it's
very structured and i think
uh that celebrating their wins along the
way is is an important part too
yeah we um the celebration part i can't
uh you know i just can't emphasize
enough of you know we have
celebration channels in slack and then
we run asana on asana so that helps with
onboarding so as new employees are
ramping you know within the company
especially on the sales team they they
get to see all the different possible
use cases um you know across teams
across functions and so that's also part
of you know onboarding them successfully
into the company but also giving them
you know ideas that they can talk to
customers about
[Music]
you